[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>SARAH ELKHALDY:
I'm Sara Elkhaldy.
And this is Mystery Teachings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you ever felt
disconnected from source,
as if your higher
self is out of reach,
leaving you searching for
answers in all the wrong places?
The truth is, this
disconnection often
stems from the imbalance between
the logical and intuitive sides
of your brain, blocking the
subtle messages that are always
available to you.
Can you learn to tune into
the quiet whispers of source
and trust the divine guidance
that flows through you?
During a spiritual
awakening, we can often
feel disconnected from
our own higher power
and from our own intuition.
But this disconnection
is oftentimes
a gap between our own
left and right hemispheres
within our brain.
So the first step
to understanding
how to communicate
with source would
be to learn how to communicate
within the hemispheres
of our own brain, starting with
understanding our left brain.
The left brain is located
within space and time.
And so it is what
we overidentify
with because it is the
analytical mind that
is here in this reality that
operates in this dimension.
It is also what we
know as the ego.
So the left brain is the logic.
It is the reasoning.
It is the third dimensional
reality that we experience.
We come to become
more identified
with the left brain the
more that we grow up
and the more that we
reach our adulthood.
So the more that we
have calcified our ego,
we become more rational
and more logical.
And this is all fine and well.
But this is where the
disconnection begins.
Because we've become so
used to our identity that
is located here
in this dimension,
we start settling more and
more into this reality.
And we have our beliefs
structured and sometimes
even programmed.
And all of this is taking
place within our left brain.
So we become very overidentified
with this experience
and with our ego.
And that ends up
becoming the very barrier
between our own
communication with source.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, the right brain is located
outside of space and time.
It is located outside
of this dimension.
The right brain connects
us to the transcendent,
to the psychic, and
even to the mystery
which all resides
beyond space and time.
So the right brain represents
source consciousness
and everything that is
beyond the ego, everything
that is a part of
our higher mind
and even imagination itself.
And this gets translated
into our inner light.
And this is the
most important thing
about understanding how to
communicate with source.
It's that the right brain
is the symbolic aspect that
dwells within all of
us that is emanating
the light of this world,
illuminating our reality
like a lantern in the dark.
The right brain being the
source of our own inner light
that emanates and even projects
this whole reality was known
in esotericism through
the esoteric wisdom,
"Don't you know yet?
It is your light that
lights the world."
This inner light is what
brings psychic impressions
into our conscious reality.
But we often fail to perceive
this subtle communication
from source because the
left brain is too dominant.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The left hemisphere
of the brain is
connected to the right
hemisphere of the body.
And the left
hemisphere of the body
is connected to the right
hemisphere of the brain.
So the left hemisphere
of the brain
is the interface between
us and the inner light
of consciousness.
The left hemisphere is
our spiritual antenna
that receives the
signal and then converts
that signal into our
third-dimensional reality.
We think that light is
received from the external
and then is put
together to create
a vision from inside our brain.
But in reality, our own
inner light of consciousness
is what animates our reality.
And the outward light
is a reflection of that.
And this is very
important when it
comes to understanding
the first barrier
between our
communication with source
and how to dissolve
that barrier.
It's by understanding
this schism that's
taking place between the left
brain and the right brain,
one that is located
within space and time
and the other one that dwells
far beyond this dimension
and beyond space and time.
Now, the right brain has energy
that flows into the left brain.
And the right brain is always
connected to the left brain.
So this flow of
energy gets analyzed.
And it gets translated
through the left brain.
And so the left brain is
doing its best to always--
to interpret the psychic
projections of this light,
of this inner phenomenon
of source consciousness.
And it's always translating
this communication from source.
It's just not fully aware of it.
It can't fully believe
that source consciousness
and the inner light dwell
simply right next to it
in the right brain.
And so the left brain continues
to put limiting beliefs
on this communication
and distort
the signals that are
being transmitted
from the right brain.
And it's done very innocently.
But it's done all the time.
And we tend to ignore
any communication that's
coming from this inner light.
Because if we cannot perceive
a phenomenon directly and if we
cannot engage with it directly,
then we're bound to relate to it
through our own projections
and through our own limiting
beliefs.
And so this distance between
the left brain's capability
of truly receiving
and translating
the right brain's inner light is
where the dominant disconnection
lies.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And so the second step to how
we can communicate with source
is going to ask us to
rewire our whole identity.
We must reorient
our identification
so that it includes both our
left and right hemispheres
of the brain.
So what we would need to do
is to relax the left brain's
identity and relax the
left brain's dominance
over our whole experience.
This is really
what's going to allow
us to start accessing more of
our capacity and more access
to our imagination.
The right brain is our
conduit for imagination.
So once the left
brain is able to start
merging with the
right brain, that's
going to start creating a
natural integration process.
Imagination is divine.
And it's just as real as our
reality and the left brain.
So imagination is
closely tied to spirit.
We could even say
that imagination
is source consciousness.
It's our higher mind because
we're all creative beings.
So when we relax
the left brain, this
helps us interpret imagination
as divine communication
and not just as random thoughts.
And we start validating
our imagination
as being just as valid and
just as real as our left brain.
And this brings us to
the next step of how
to communicate with source--
subtlety.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Communication from
source will feel more
like silent and strong clarity.
It will be a clarity
around whatever
we feel we have a
lot of questions
about in that real time moment.
So many times, we're ignoring
very valid and very divine
communication from source,
simply because it's not bold
enough for our
nervous system, it
is not analytical enough
for the left brain,
it's not loud enough.
Sometimes, we feel that
communication isn't even valid
unless we see an angel
pound through our roof
and stand straight
in front of us.
But the right brain's inner
light is the subtle realms.
And in order to understand
and hear the subtle realms,
we now have to
become more subtle.
I cannot stress this enough.
To connect with source, we
must become subtle ourselves.
And we must develop
the subtleness
within our whole being to
receive the subtle messages that
come from the right brain.
And we have to start
understanding just how
much our own attunement
into the subtle realm
plays the strongest
role in our ability
to develop confidence in
receiving connection to source.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The reason why
it's so hard for us
to believe that we can
communicate with source
is because we're usually
operating from the lower mind
or what is known
as the monkey mind.
This is the part of
our mind that includes
all of the unnecessary chatter.
And it clouds true
communication from source
because we're simply using the
monkey mind to continuously
perpetuate lower thoughts,
the same limiting
beliefs or the same
thought patterns that
keep us locked into the lower
frequencies of this experience.
The lower mind is where
we have the most judgment
and we're the most critical
of ourselves and others.
This is where we pick
apart all of our actions.
And this is what we constantly
replay over and over again
because we feel that
it is unresolved.
So this is so important to
understand about the lower
mind and the higher mind because
communication from source
is not happening
in the lower mind.
In fact, we would
need to really observe
the content of the monkey
mind and start peeling back
the layers and dissolving
that chatter in order
to start hearing
the thoughts that
are coming from source
consciousness and the higher
mind.
So the lower mind is going
to be one of the things
that we have to become aware of
because it's very easy for us
to understand why we would
mock the concept of thoughts
being divine or thoughts being
how source communicates to us
if our dominant location within
the mind is the lower mind.
We especially feel disconnected
from our own higher power
when we feel like we
are not worthy of being
close enough in distance
to our higher power.
And this is really
important to understand.
Because whenever we place
a large distance between us
and divinity, we
will always manifest
some sort of issue, some sort
of error in communication.
So distance is so important.
Because when we're
really talking
about higher mind
and the lower mind
or the higher self and even the
ego, what we're thinking about
is the above and the below.
But so that we
understand how to bridge
the gap between this distance,
what I want you to understand
is that the as above
and so below are real.
But they're real in
this realm, which
is based off of relativity.
Beyond space-time and
beyond relativity,
there's truly only as
within and so without.
So as above and so below.
As within, so without.
As the universe, so the soul.
This hermetic axiom is
pointing to the deeper truth
that there is no
distance between us
and source consciousness.
We are the universe experiencing
ourselves as a soul.
And so once we understand that
everything comes from within
and is projected from
within to the without,
we have now bridged the
distance between us and source,
between our analytical mind
and between our inner light.
"As within, so without" is
also known as the Vedic wisdom.
"He who knows that highest
Brahman becomes even Brahman."
This is what it means
to know thyself.
But this knowing can only come
once our mind is open enough
to receive a higher
level of being.
We must allow our mind to relax
into our heart to do this.
The brain can be looked at
as a spiritual antenna that
is dialing us into this
third-dimensional reality.
So the brain is always
translating vibration
into physical matter.
And the brain is
converting our imagination
into this physical reality.
So the brain is always
like an interface
translating and interpreting
even our thoughts
into physical form.
So if the brain is
the spiritual antenna,
then what is turning
the knob is the heart.
And the heart is what
allows us to go and dial
in on the wavelength,
just like a radio station,
to the channel where we're
getting communication
from source consciousness.
So source consciousness really
dwells within our heart.
And that's how we
even get on the radio
station or the wavelength
to perceive communication
and to start hearing it.
So this is going to be a
balancing act between us
accepting and really being open
to validating the thoughts that
come through our mind with
the openness of allowing
the surrender to take
place to the heart center.
Then opening ourselves
to the heart center
is what will allow us to
connect directly with source.
So now that we've discerned the
difference between the lower
mind and the higher
mind, I'm going
to walk you through
a meditation you
can use to connect with source.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Relax your mind until
it seeps into the heart.
This will give you
a vast feeling.
It will not feel like
an emotional peak.
It will feel more open and
without expectation of emotion.
Sometimes, it even feels
cold because the heart space
is so vast.
Once you have relaxed, continue
to release anticipation.
Release the expectation
that communication
must look a certain way and
that it must be a certain way.
Once you have
released anticipation,
you must validate that
communication you do receive.
You must validate
that you are indeed
receiving communication and
something as common and as
ordinary and even
invisible as thoughts.
Notice how these
thoughts arise, not
needing to grasp or control them
but simply allowing them to be.
In this stillness, you
are connected to source.
Carry this feeling of open
connection with you as you
move throughout your day.
Through this process, you
will strengthen your ability
to communicate with source.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The key to reconnecting
with source
lies in quieting the
dominance of the left brain
and embracing the intuitive
flow of the right brain,
allowing divine
communication to come through
in creative and subtle ways.
Once you open yourself
to this silent language,
you'll realize that source has
been speaking to you all along.
The question is, are
you ready to listen?
[AUDIO LOGO]